# Unemployment-Rate-in-USA

This project aims to analyze and visualize the data within the Dataset containing information about Unemployment Rates in USA. The dataset contains data for total unemployment rate, unemployment rate for men and women, unemployment rate for different races such as Black, Hispanic and White, unemployment rate amongst different Education Levels and lastly, unemployment rate amongst men and women within different races and different Education levels.

Upon visualizing the data using python pandas, we can observe a few trends within the data. The unemployment rate has been fluctuating throughout the years, with the highest unemployment rate in the year 1983 with a rate of 10.3 and the lowest in the year 2020 with a rate of 3.6. The mean unemployment rate is the highest amongst the 16-24 year olds and the lowest amongst the 65 and above age demographic. The unemployment rate amongst men and women would vary when compared to each other as the years pass with higher unemployment of women during the 1980s and men during the years around 2010. Education level and unemployment were fairly correlated where a higher education level entailed a lower unemployment rate and a lower education level lead to a higher unemployment rate throughout the years. Moreover, there is a trend seen where race plays an important role within unemployment rates as the years pass on, with Black people having higher unemployment rates followed by Hispanic people and lastly White people with the least unemployment rates throughout the years.

Through thorough analysis of the dataset containing information regarding the unemployment rates in USA, we can come to the conclusion that unemployment rates fluctuate throughout the years for both men and women, higher education levels lead to better employment for both men and women and that race plays a big role within industries leading to higher employment rates for White people and lower employment rates for Black people.
